I'm a 2.35 she's awesome am i addicted
to great yes there's this thing that
just says oh there's another day on the
line like ding you just got a new Mac
when you've had a bad day or someone's
rejected you you you go straight back
onto the gambling up in fact they sort
of created an atmosphere that psycho
therapist would historically have
regarded as slightly pathological Camino
de Luci in the last week I spent eight
and a half hours on Grindr because I
value romance focus and level of manners
and compassion and empathy for others
and I feel like the era of online dating
I started using tinder and I use that
for years and then Bumble that's that's
my profile picture I have pictures there
and I can see how I've been reviewed is
gonna get rated like everything else
that's kind of depressing
I started using Dana probably around
second yogini and it was grinder I went
straight to grinder so what we've got
here is the grid this bit is basically
where you can fill in little details
about yourself so high position there's
people who would say things like no
Chubby's no fats fit only I use tender
mostly that's pretty much the only one I
use I'll use it every day I talk to
people on it quite a lot girth days and
quite a lot
let's see your profile my profile here's
my profile it's me in the Sun I look a
bit naked but I think it is important to
note that there are some difficulties in
mental health that are arising around
the use of dating ups in fact they sort
of create an atmosphere that
psychotherapists would historically have
regarded as slightly pathological and
narcissistic the way these apps are
designed are around appearances there
around non-emotional online
communication rather than offline
communication and they're about ubiquity
and endless promise see cloud yet I've
been put off a bit like online dating
generally and I know that you did it but
maybe all right name baby did you have a
little bit of a better time with it the
meal how did you find it when you were
doing it I had some pretty bad stories
trying to laugh it off try to nail well
it's a nice story
do you love guy who I thought look
lovely and and we met up and it was nice
and it was good and now we're married so
real so camera it can yeah we have a
tinder toddler yeah I I don't think we
would have met if it hadn't because I
don't know how
people could be out in a pub I'm like oh
my god and I just feed people in real
life but they're still on all the apps
oh my in real life people I meet it yeah
I still on the apps and maybe they're
not motivated to speak to the girl in
the pub because I'll swipe on the way
home yeah
so it's is this weird feeling of like
leaving the online dating cult and
realizing everyone's still in it so you
kind of kind of screwed either way
I went for a weekend with a guy and we
were getting on really nicely and the
next day I came down and realized he was
swiping on tinder like in the kitchen on
our weekend away and I thought wow you
couldn't even wait till I've gone home I
kind of feel like those guys are making
me feel like a novelty like a little
variation for you of different ones she
wants to sample ghosting benching bread
coming Submarine a if you look at these
these are actually descriptions of
behavior that's highly highly damaging
and yet it's been normalized in these
arms so I've never to this day Mel of a
guy who hasn't been from Grindr am i
addicted to Grindr yes definitely I
definitely use it as a source of
validation there's a lot of pressure to
fit this perfect body mode the six-pack
mode the tones the muscular so I'm just
going to show you a before picture this
was taken in 2016 and then the the the
after it was taken this year in 2018 if
I get rejected on Grindr it's instantly
linked
my way the problem with these apps is
that they focus only on one aspect which
is how we look and it's not only that
it's how we look in a photo and that's
probably how we look in a photo the
width and some way doctored when we're
seeking validation of ourselves were not
really seeking validation of how we look
how we look we're seeking validation of
something much deeper or we lovable I
think the the nature of like the swiping
it breeds this idea of you know like
availability of people and that for me
definitely like has kept me single yeah
you can blindside people where you might
actually like be like have like a really
long prosperous happy relationship with
because there's this thing that just
says are there's another date on the
line like something like ding you just
got a new match like loads and love hot
eyes trying to figure out what to wear
tonight for this date first time ever
I'm not going through Grindr and we
actually met through Instagram iPhones
new update has screen tile activity so
in the last week I spent eight hours
eight and a half hours on Grindr yeah I
mean it's shocking isn't it how much
time how much time I spend on it
so there is some questions around about
whether these apps are addictive when
you look at the app itself it's very
clearly has qualities that can in some
circumstances it can encourage addiction
there is a repetitive action of swiping
which everyone knows is soothing in the
case of anxiety and then there's the
dopamine hit that when you've been
searching you get what you've been
looking for which is a match once you
have enjoyed I'm no date talk with Lucy
gets my uni what are you expecting
tonight well yeah I wouldn't say
anything serious you know just like fun
just casual videos if I if I was to find
someone who was like taped every box I
wouldn't I wouldn't automatically not
want to be in like a relationship so
it's not really about like men's
attitudes it's just that like well
there's just so many out there
there's so many just nasty eyes I'm sure
some people do yeah sure but like
I think that would be a bit misconstrued
I'm not intentionally like nasty you
know I lay things out how they are but
of course not everybody is going to
treat people badly but what it does is a
sort of creates an atmosphere where it's
much more permissive for us to pursue
self gratification to pursue pleasure
and to avoid peer I don't really have
any expectations I think I've reached a
point now when I go in first dates I try
and limit them out of expectations I
have I think that's just after a series
of bad dates or a series of bad
connections I think I'm very excited by
the fact that I haven't met this is not
someone I've met through Grindr
I think if it goes well maybe I'll DM
more people but you know I think my
addiction to Grindr is probably much
deeper than that
[Music]
do you use tinder a lot what do you
think about dating out
I mean I'm quite old-fashioned like that
to meet someone in real life but it
seems pretty hard these days I feel like
if everyone is using tinder then you
just kinda have to hop on board
interesting when even at the bad day or
someone's rejected you you you don't
take time to calm and think you know
what was that you go straight back on to
the gambling up to boost your
self-esteem to make you feel better like
I'm still cute I'm still like that
didn't work out but I'm still attractive
if these guys don't want me so is a real
vicious cycle if you feel that you're
misusing it you need to start looking at
behavioral patterns on how they might
change go cold turkey if you want to go
cold turkey but what I would recommend
is that people start with just producing
it turn off your notifications a lot of
times during the day when you can use it
notice when you're craving it and when
you're craving it don't sit on your
hands don't go back your phone don't sit
around do something else
find something offline that makes you
feel good talk to your friends get some
exercise go for a walk
oh so it was good it's really good and I
haven't been on Grindr sense into why
you ever logged in or anything no I
trust me actually at one point I clicked
on a bit more habit of my fingers and I
closed it instantly because I was like
okay let's just this Conda it's a whole
new way for me because got an app it's
so easy for anyone to treat you in
whatever way they want it's just a
numbers game like because chances are
the person you're connecting with is
also connecting other people you might
get dropped so you should then go and
like so that's what a lot of you were
doing and I think that's when it comes
in to like breadcrumb and you just keep
tons of them lots of warm keep
breadcrumb in them and they keep them
all attached that is horrible but so
human nature yeah it's like everybody's
playing the game right you have no
choice than to play it's like no one
wants to play Monopoly this is gonna be
like deal me these difficulties that
we're seeing in our rooms and that
people are talking about will be the
things that drive us to have better
relationships online and there will be
the things that drive the developers to
develop better more ensure of more
responsible dating apps that cater to
our needs beyond basic appearance
[Music]
you play into roles so much like that
that's a huge thing
you play into the roles that you are
expected of and are expected
[Music]
it's easy to get lost I'll check about
the past before dating apps everyone
could have been an then and an
now and everyone did fall in
love then and people can still fall in
love now the difference is you run out
to find romance every second of the day
back then it came intermittently when
you connected in real life
[Music]
now you've come off it maybe you will
meet somebody and yeah that would be
lovely to have a partner would be great
[Music]
[Laughter]